## hash function
* hash function is any function that maps data of arbitrary size to a value of fixed-size.
* a hash function takes a key and maps it to a value (also called hashed value or has). The hash refers or represents the given key.

## hash table
* A hash table uses a hash function to compute an index, also called a hash code, into an array of buckets or slots, from which the desired value can be found.
* Ideally, the hash function will assign each key to a unique bucket, but most hash table designs employ an imperfect hash function, which might cause hash collisions where the hash function generates the same index for more than one key. Such collisions are always accommodated in some way.

## Collision
* When two or more data have the same hash, which means the same index in the hash table then it's called a collision.

## Handling collision
### There are 2 basic methods for handling collisions in hash tables:
* Separate chaining: it's methods that consists of injecting linked lists (or other DS) to each index of the table (instead of just inserting they value related to the key) and they value will be a node in the LL.
* Open addressing: The problem with separate chaining is that the data structure can grow with out bounds.  Sometimes this is not appropriate because of finite storage, for example in embedded processors. Open addressing does not introduce a new structure.  If a collision occurs then we look for availability in the next spot generated by an algorithm. Open Addressing is generally used where storage space is a premium, i.e. embedded processors. Open addressing not necessarily faster then separate chaining.
[Check this link for more info.](http://www.csl.mtu.edu/cs2321/www/newLectures/17_Hash_Tables_Collisions.html)
 